# Prepare data for Upset plot

Prepare data for Upset plot

## Usage

``` r
prepare_upset_data(
  data,
  in_form = "auto",
  group_by = NULL,
  group_by_sep = "_",
  id_by = NULL,
  specific = TRUE
)
```

## Arguments

- data:

  A data frame or a list or an UpsetPlotData object.

- in_form:

  A character string indicating the datatype of the input data. Possible
  values are "long", "wide", "list", "upset" or "auto". "long" indicates
  the data is in long format. "wide" indicates the data is in wide
  format. "list" indicates the data is a list. "upset" indicates the
  data is a UpsetPlotData object. "auto" indicates the function will
  detect the datatype of the input data.

  A long format data would look like:

      group_by id_by
      A        a1
      A        a2
      B        a1
      B        a3
      ...

  A wide format data would look like:

      A    B
      TRUE TRUE
      TRUE FALSE
      FALSE TRUE
      ...

  A list format data would look like:

      list(A = c("a1", "a2"), B = c("a1", "a3"))

  An UpsetPlotData object is generated by prepare_update_data() would
  look like:

      group_by
      --------
      list("A")  # a2
      list("B")  # a3
      list(c("A", "B"))  # a1
      ...

- group_by:

  A character string specifying the column name of the data frame to
  group the data.

- group_by_sep:

  A character string to concatenate the columns in `group_by`, if
  multiple columns are provided and the in_form is "long".

- id_by:

  A character string specifying the column name of the data frame to
  identify the instances. Required when `group_by` is a single column
  and data is a data frame.

- specific:

  A logical value to show the specific intersections only.
  ggVennDiagram, by default, only return the specific subsets of a
  region. However, sometimes, we want to show all the overlapping items
  for two or more sets. See
  <https://github.com/gaospecial/ggVennDiagram/issues/64> for more
  details.

## Value

A UpsetPlotData object
