# Upset Plot

Upset Plot

## Usage

``` r
UpsetPlot(
  data,
  in_form = c("auto", "long", "wide", "list", "upset"),
  split_by = NULL,
  split_by_sep = "_",
  group_by = NULL,
  group_by_sep = "_",
  id_by = NULL,
  label = TRUE,
  label_fg = "black",
  label_size = NULL,
  label_bg = "white",
  label_bg_r = 0.1,
  palette = "Blues",
  palcolor = NULL,
  alpha = 1,
  specific = TRUE,
  theme = "theme_this",
  theme_args = list(),
  title = NULL,
  subtitle = NULL,
  xlab = NULL,
  ylab = NULL,
  aspect.ratio = 0.6,
  legend.position = "right",
  legend.direction = "vertical",
  combine = TRUE,
  nrow = NULL,
  ncol = NULL,
  byrow = TRUE,
  seed = 8525,
  axes = NULL,
  axis_titles = axes,
  guides = NULL,
  design = NULL,
  ...
)
```

## Arguments

- data:

  A data frame.

- in_form:

  A character string indicating the datatype of the input data. Possible
  values are "long", "wide", "list", "upset" or "auto". "long" indicates
  the data is in long format. "wide" indicates the data is in wide
  format. "list" indicates the data is a list. "upset" indicates the
  data is a UpsetPlotData object. "auto" indicates the function will
  detect the datatype of the input data.

  A long format data would look like:

      group_by id_by
      A        a1
      A        a2
      B        a1
      B        a3
      ...

  A wide format data would look like:

      A    B
      TRUE TRUE
      TRUE FALSE
      FALSE TRUE
      ...

  A list format data would look like:

      list(A = c("a1", "a2"), B = c("a1", "a3"))

  An UpsetPlotData object is generated by prepare_update_data() would
  look like:

      group_by
      --------
      list("A")  # a2
      list("B")  # a3
      list(c("A", "B"))  # a1
      ...

- split_by:

  The column(s) to split data by and plot separately.

- split_by_sep:

  The separator for multiple split_by columns. See `split_by`

- group_by:

  Columns to group the data for plotting For those plotting functions
  that do not support multiple groups, They will be concatenated into
  one column, using `group_by_sep` as the separator

- group_by_sep:

  The separator for multiple group_by columns. See `group_by`

- id_by:

  A character string specifying the column name of the data frame to
  identify the instances. Required when `group_by` is a single column
  and data is a data frame.

- label:

  A logical value to show the labels on the bars.

- label_fg:

  A character string specifying the color of the label text.

- label_size:

  A numeric value specifying the size of the label text.

- label_bg:

  A character string specifying the background color of the label.

- label_bg_r:

  A numeric value specifying the radius of the background of the label.

- palette:

  A character string specifying the palette to use. A named list or
  vector can be used to specify the palettes for different `split_by`
  values.

- palcolor:

  A character string specifying the color to use in the palette. A named
  list can be used to specify the colors for different `split_by`
  values. If some values are missing, the values from the palette will
  be used (palcolor will be NULL for those values).

- alpha:

  A numeric value specifying the transparency of the plot.

- specific:

  A logical value to show the specific intersections only.
  ggVennDiagram, by default, only return the specific subsets of a
  region. However, sometimes, we want to show all the overlapping items
  for two or more sets. See
  <https://github.com/gaospecial/ggVennDiagram/issues/64> for more
  details.

- theme:

  A character string or a theme class (i.e. ggplot2::theme_classic)
  specifying the theme to use. Default is "theme_this".

- theme_args:

  A list of arguments to pass to the theme function.

- title:

  A character string specifying the title of the plot. A function can be
  used to generate the title based on the default title. This is useful
  when split_by is used and the title needs to be dynamic.

- subtitle:

  A character string specifying the subtitle of the plot.

- xlab:

  A character string specifying the x-axis label.

- ylab:

  A character string specifying the y-axis label.

- aspect.ratio:

  A numeric value specifying the aspect ratio of the plot.

- legend.position:

  A character string specifying the position of the legend. if
  `waiver()`, for single groups, the legend will be "none", otherwise
  "right".

- legend.direction:

  A character string specifying the direction of the legend.

- combine:

  Whether to combine the plots into one when facet is FALSE. Default is
  TRUE.

- nrow:

  A numeric value specifying the number of rows in the facet.

- ncol:

  A numeric value specifying the number of columns in the facet.

- byrow:

  A logical value indicating whether to fill the plots by row.

- seed:

  The random seed to use. Default is 8525.

- axes:

  A string specifying how axes should be treated. Passed to
  [`patchwork::wrap_plots()`](https://patchwork.data-imaginist.com/reference/wrap_plots.html).
  Only relevant when `split_by` is used and `combine` is TRUE. Options
  are:

  - 'keep' will retain all axes in individual plots.

  - 'collect' will remove duplicated axes when placed in the same run of
    rows or columns of the layout.

  - 'collect_x' and 'collect_y' will remove duplicated x-axes in the
    columns or duplicated y-axes in the rows respectively.

- axis_titles:

  A string specifying how axis titltes should be treated. Passed to
  [`patchwork::wrap_plots()`](https://patchwork.data-imaginist.com/reference/wrap_plots.html).
  Only relevant when `split_by` is used and `combine` is TRUE. Options
  are:

  - 'keep' will retain all axis titles in individual plots.

  - 'collect' will remove duplicated titles in one direction and merge
    titles in the opposite direction.

  - 'collect_x' and 'collect_y' control this for x-axis titles and
    y-axis titles respectively.

- guides:

  A string specifying how guides should be treated in the layout. Passed
  to
  [`patchwork::wrap_plots()`](https://patchwork.data-imaginist.com/reference/wrap_plots.html).
  Only relevant when `split_by` is used and `combine` is TRUE. Options
  are:

  - 'collect' will collect guides below to the given nesting level,
    removing duplicates.

  - 'keep' will stop collection at this level and let guides be placed
    alongside their plot.

  - 'auto' will allow guides to be collected if a upper level tries, but
    place them alongside the plot if not.

- design:

  Specification of the location of areas in the layout, passed to
  [`patchwork::wrap_plots()`](https://patchwork.data-imaginist.com/reference/wrap_plots.html).
  Only relevant when `split_by` is used and `combine` is TRUE. When
  specified, `nrow`, `ncol`, and `byrow` are ignored. See
  [`patchwork::wrap_plots()`](https://patchwork.data-imaginist.com/reference/wrap_plots.html)
  for more details.

- ...:

  Additional arguments.

## Value

A ggplot object or wrap_plots object or a list of ggplot objects

## Examples

``` r
# \donttest{
data <- list(
    A = 1:5,
    B = 2:6,
    C = 3:7,
    D = 4:8
)
UpsetPlot(data)
#> Coordinate system already present.
#> ℹ Adding new coordinate system, which will replace the existing one.

UpsetPlot(data, label = FALSE)
#> Coordinate system already present.
#> ℹ Adding new coordinate system, which will replace the existing one.

UpsetPlot(data, palette = "Reds", specific = FALSE)
#> Coordinate system already present.
#> ℹ Adding new coordinate system, which will replace the existing one.


# long form input
data_long <- data.frame(
    group_by = factor(
         c(rep("A", 5), rep("B", 5), rep("C", 5), rep("D", 5)),
         levels = c("A", "B", "C", "D")
    ),
    id_by = c(1:5, 2:6, 3:7, 4:8)
)
UpsetPlot(data_long, in_form = "long", group_by = "group_by", id_by = "id_by")
#> Coordinate system already present.
#> ℹ Adding new coordinate system, which will replace the existing one.


# wide form input
data <- data.frame(
    id = LETTERS[1:10],
    B = c(1, 0, 1, 1, 0, 0, 1, 0, 1, 0),
    A = c(1, 1, 1, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0, 1, 0),
    D = c(1, 0, 0, 1, 1, 0, 0, 1, 0, 1),
    C = c(0, 1, 1, 0, 1, 0, 1, 0, 1, 0)
)
UpsetPlot(data, in_form = "wide", id_by = "id")
#> Coordinate system already present.
#> ℹ Adding new coordinate system, which will replace the existing one.

# }
```
